README.md, before:

# NYC Grid Stress

**Author:** Chase Cassels  
**Email:** chasecassels@gmail.com  

---

Exploratory data analysis project to study how grid stress may change across NYC due to temperature variance, climate change, land use changes, population change, and technological improvements.

- [Weather Data Ingestion](#weather)
- [Zoning/Land Use Data Ingestion](#zoning)
- [Preprocessing](#preproc)
- [To-dos](#to-dos)

---

## Weather Data Ingestion

To ingest Historical NYC Weather Data from the Open Science Foundation API into an empty SQLite database:

```
touch database/weather-data.db
cd file-extraction
bash run_import_processes.sh
```

---

## Zoning/Land Use Data Ingestion


---

## Population Data Ingestion


---

## Preprocessing


---

## To-dos

Data sourcing:

-Source land-use historical data and future data  
-Source population historical and future data
-Source grid use historical data  
-Source annual temperature rise projections  



Preprocessing:  
  
-Create future weather data tables (emulate format of historical data and use averages + projected increases to fill)  
-Temporally downscale population and land use data  
-Write and test Joins/Unions to create one comprehensive historical table and one comprehensive future table with an empty grid use column


ML:

-Research suitable models & mathematical justification (Random Forest / Neural Net / Time Series Models) 
-Write a python script for training on comprehensive historical table (Scikit-learn)  
-Write a script for predicting grid use column values based on training results

Commit message:

Revise README for project structure and clarity
Updated README structure and added sections for Mapping and Visualization, and ML Research/Testing.

README.md, after:

# NYC Grid Stress

**Author:** Chase Cassels  
**Email:** chasecassels@gmail.com  

---

Exploratory data analysis project to study how grid stress may change across NYC due to temperature variance, climate change, land use changes, population change, and technological improvements.

- [Data Ingestion](#ingest)
- [Preprocessing](#preproc)
- [ML](#ml)
- [Mapping and Visualization](#display)
- [To-dos](#to-dos)

---

## Data Ingestion

Ingest Historical NYC Weather Data from the Open Science Foundation API into an empty SQLite database:

```
touch database/weather-data.db
cd file-extraction
bash run_import_processes.sh
```

---

## Preprocessing


---

## ML


--

## Mapping and Visulization


---

## To-dos

Data sourcing:

-Source land-use historical data and future data  
-Source population historical and future data
-Source grid use historical data  
-Source annual temperature rise projections  


Preprocessing:  
  
-Create future weather data tables (emulate format of historical data and use averages + projected increases to fill)  
-Temporally downscale population and land use data  
-Write and test Joins/Unions to create one comprehensive historical table and one comprehensive future table with an empty grid use column


ML Research/Testing:

-Research suitable models & mathematical justification (Random Forest / Neural Net / Time Series Models) 
-Write a python script for training on comprehensive historical table (Scikit-learn)  
-Write a script for predicting grid use column values based on training results  


Visualization:

-Grafana?
